# Personal Statement

The word "interdisciplinary" has become a buzzword in modern academia, used to describe so many different things that it now carries very little information. This is unfortunate, because the ideal of interdisciplinary research -- at its best, the intellectual cross-pollenation of separate, but related fields -- is one worth pursuing, especially in young fields like neuroscience. One of the unique experiences that I think I can bring to my research in neuroscience is my somewhat unorthodox academic path, which has exposed me to a number of different academic disciplines, all of which I believe have important contributions to make to the problems that we face in neuroscience.

When I arrived at Princeton at the beginning of my freshman year, I didn't know what I wanted to study. This wasn't due to a lack of serious interest in any of the available majors, but the opposite: there were multiple subjects that I was interested in, namely, math, computer science, and philosophy. What I loved about these fields was that they all involved pure, abstract thinking, removed from the messiness of the real world. For my first two years in college, I took classes in all three of these subjects, and, to the detriment of my grades, satisfied the prerequisites for all three majors. During the summer after my sophomore year, I did an REU internship in a machine learning lab at the University of Colorado Colorado Springs, which made me decide to major in philosophy. I realized that I wasn't genuinely curious about computer science or pure math -- I liked learning about these subjects in the classroom, but when it came to doing research, I had no motivation, because I wasn't actually interested in the answers to the questions I was investigating. I had spent a large part of my spare time that summer reading the philosophy of Lugwig Wittgenstein and a statistics textbook, so I decided to major in philosophy in order to focus on studying the philosophy of probability.

At the beginning of my junior year, I quickly realized that my decision to major in philosphy was a mistake. Like with pure math and computer science, the very quality that had originally attracted me to the field -- its abstraction and generality -- also made me eventually lose interest. Although I had originally tried to avoid the messy business of describing the real, physical world, it occurred to me that this was the only thing that could keep me genuinely curious. I had realized, one year too late, that my real area of interest was the natural sciences. For a while, I seriously considered dropping out of Princeton and trying to pursue a degree in physics or applied math somewhere else, but in the end, I was able to switch my major at the last minute to computer science, which I felt would give me the most opportunities to pursue what I wanted after graduation. This wasn't an easy choice to make -- in addition to being generally uninterested in a lot of the classes I would be required to take, I also knew that I wasn't very good at memorizing software protocols, writing large computer programs, or troubleshooting complicated software systems. I didn't have the competitive attitude or entrepreneurial bent that were common in the department. By majoring in computer science, I was essentially agreeing to take a large number of classes that I wasn't interested in, and probably wouldn't do very well in grade-wise, in order to keep the door open to pursuing science after graduation. Ultimately, I decided that this was worth it.

Princeton engineering students, unlike the rest of the student body, are not required to do independent work during their junior and senior years, but, because the opportunity to do research with top academics was one of the main reasons I had chosen to go to Princeton in the first place, I jumped at the opportunity as soon as it became available. One great thing about the computer science department was that they allowed students to do their independent work with professors in cognate fields and still get credit. This is how, during my junior year, I started doing my independent work with Prof. Jonathan Pillow, who works in computational neuroscience. I ended up doing a small independent work project with Prof. Pillow in the spring of my junior year, then doing my thesis project with him during my senior year, and working as a research assistant in his lab the summer after graduation. It would be hard to overstate the effect that this experience had on my academic direction. In neuroscience, especially the more computationally-oriented work that Prof. Pillow was pursuing, I found a way to apply my long-standing interest in probability and statistics to real-world problems I was actually interested in. Even through the work I was doing was much more on the computer science side, I saw that computational neuroscience was the exact type of mathematical modeling that I had always wanted to do: work on the messy interface between the formal language of mathematics and the more haphazard world of experimental data. 

For a year and a half after graduating, I worked as a software engineer on the Artificial Intelligence team at Bloomberg L.P., in New York. Although I had doubts about whether I would like working on the industry side of machine learning, I felt it was at least worth exploring. During the time that I worked there, I spent a lot of my free time learning about neuroscience and statistics. First, I took Adrienne Fairhall and Rajesh Rao's online course on computational neuroscience through Coursera and read Bill Lytton's introductory textbook, "From Computer to Brain" to get a broad survey of the field. Then, I sought out and read papers in the subfields I was interested in, memory and neural coding. One of the papers I especially liked was from Prof. Cristina Savin's lab at NYU, so, this May, I reached out to Prof. Savin and was able to join her lab full-time as a research assistant. 

Working in Prof. Savin's lab has solidified my belief that neuroscience is the field I want to work in, but it has also showed me how my past experience in other disciplines can help me as a neuroscientist. My background in math, for example, is very helpful for working with some of the models that we use to describe neural circuits. Knowlege of multiple programming languages, and experience programming in an industrial setting helps me efficiently set up data analyses and numerical simulations. Even my study of philosophy has proved helpful -- in a young field like neuroscience, philosophical questions like what makes two theories equivalent and what constitutes a testable hypothesis are still being sorted out. While I am pursuing my PhD, I hope to use my background in these fields to inform my research.
